Hello, freak bitches. So, uh,
I've been reading your book man tribe. I really enjoy it. It's really good.
And it's it's so, uh, it resonates. It's very interesting. I will,
into the first chapter I wanted to move in with the native Americans. That was,
it was such a, I mean, it was, uh,
one of the more interesting aspects of it was something that I didn't know
about, which was, uh,
the European settlers that had been kidnapped and were living with the native
Americans. And then when they were rescued, many of them wanted to go back.
Yeah. Or they would go into hiding.
So they wouldn't have to be repatriated to colonial society.
They wanted to stay with their adopted tribes and there,
and there was also a lot of, um,
a lot of young white people, particularly white men, but young women too,
who basically absconded across the frontier into tribal society. Uh,
they, they fled white society. They didn't like it.
And as Benjamin Franklin pointed out,
we have lots of [inaudible] young colonials fleeing to the Indians.
And we have not one example of an Indian as they were called fleeing to white
society.
Yeah. That was one of the more fascinating aspects of it.
I didn't anticipate that.
I thought that there would be a lot of native Americans, so it'd be like, wow,
this is a way better. Look at all the food. Look at the houses.
I mean, they had plenty of food, you know, whatever there sucks. It sucks.
I was very successful society. In fact, they were,
they had better nutrition than the whites that, um, uh, a more very diet,
um, and a much, much more egalitarian society, uh, than colonial society.
That was also interesting about it. Well, um,
when you were talking about the women that had moved in with the native
Americans and were expressing how much more freedom they experienced.
Yeah. I mean, Indian society, native society,
wasn't crushed by Christian morality. So you could divorce,
you could marry as a woman, you can marry whom you wanted.
You could get divorced, you could do whatever you wanted. It was very,
very Galatarian. What they've shown is that, um, the,
in societies where everyone is necessary for food production, food production,
uh, everyone, more or less equal. And in agrarian societies,
agricultural societies, industrial societies,
you have large segments of the population.
Often women who are not involved in food production and they're involved in
reproduction. And so they're, um, equality goes down.
Wow, it's just,
it's almost like society as we've created over the last couple of hundred
years is almost totally incompatible with,
with human genetics or with the human body or the human
spirit or whatever.
Well, if you look at, um, I mean, genetics are complicated. I mean,
obviously on some level, industrials is modern societies, very successful.
We have 7 billion of us. Um, uh,
but as wealth goes up in a society,
as modernity goes up into society, the suicide rate goes up.
The rate goes up, schizophrenia goes up, uh, in urban environments.
Um, they're not good for the human psyche. We are designed,
we evolve the live in groups of 30, 40 people in a harsh environment,
totally into reliant on one another for survival. Uh,
that creates a huge amount of equality within a group and loyalty within a
group. That's what we are designed for genetically, uh,
modern society allows the individual to be independent from the group,
which is in some ways a great liberation, uh,
and other ways it can lead to a profound alienation and depression.
Yeah. It's, uh, it's just a very confusing thing.
It seems for people to be amongst so many people, but to be alone.
Yeah. I mean,
we're not wired to be confronted with strangers all day long.
And I live in New York city and I love New York city. Um, but all day long, you,
you encounter strangers and you don't, and you don't recognize anybody.
So you can be alone in a crowd,
which is not something that human beings have experienced until quite recently
in their history.
Yeah. Um, that was,
I think one of the more disturbing parts about this idea that these people, um,
were, uh, kidnapped by the native Americans and wanted to stay with them,
was that whatever that native American life was like,
however they were living, that just seemed to just resonate with them.
It seemed to, it seemed to be what was right.
Well, we're, we're wired to want to feel like we belong to a group. Uh,
native American society was, uh, sexually, uh, quite relaxed.
I was quite a Galatarian um, in a hunter gatherer society,
you really can't accumulate wealth very well because these societies are often
nomadic. So you can only accumulate as much wealth as you can carry,
which isn't much. Um, and, and ultimately in societies like that,
uh, as in a platoon in combat, which is another part of my book, obviously, um,
you're, you're,
you're primarily value valued for your contribution to the group.
And that has been lost in modern society. People are enormously self-serving,
uh, capitalism basically instructs us to do so. Uh,
that's a whole other evolutionary imperative, which is also important,
but in our society is way out of whack.
So we are wired to serve ourselves and we are wired to serve the group and in
a healthy society, those two,
those two are in a dynamic tension with each other.
And in balance in modern society, there really is no group to serve. Uh,
and it leads to a really profound sense of, um,
meaninglessness for a lot of people.
Yeah. I also found it pretty fascinating that when you were really young, you,
when you, when you were working, I think you said you were working construction.
So what it.
Was, uh, I'm trying to remember the story you were about to you, you were.
Talking to,
you were just saying that you were talking to someone you were working with and
they were telling you to slow down because some of us,
some of us have to do this for a lifetime.
I heard about that story. Yeah. Yeah. I was on a construction, grew a,
it was a highway department of my town. And, you know,
a lot of these guys were kind of lifers in the department,
not a particularly challenging job, um, in, in a sense, uh,
but you were on your feet all day long in the sun or whatever. And, and so, uh,
you know, I was a young guy and I, you know,
I wanted to sort of prove my metal or whatever I was, I was,
we were digging a trench and I was digging like crazy. And, uh,
and an older guy came up to me, you know, he's probably in his sixties,
he came up to me and clapped me on the shoulder. He said, son, uh,
you want to slow down there? You know,
some of us are going to have to do this job, our whole lives.
And he knew I was a college kid. He knew I wasn't going to. Right. Um,
and I said, just slow down. You know, no one needs to work as fast.
It just a,
it was a really interesting that you were longing for something you were saying,
like almost to go wrong. So everybody had a band together,
whether it was a hurricane or something, and that,
that mundane life of just work and doing things you don't really want to
do.
Well. I mean,
the irony about modern society is that it has removed hardship and danger from
everyday life.
And it's in the face of hardship and danger that people come to understand their
value to their society and theirs. They get their sense of meaning from that.
And so what you have is when, you know, during the blitz in London,
for example, um, 30,000 people were killed by German bombs.
It was a horror show over the course of six months. It was gasoline,
but people were sleeping shoulder to shoulder in the tube stations and putting
out fires with bucket brigades and digging people out of rubble. And,
and they were acting as a unified society.
And the English government was prepared for mass psychiatric casualties because
as a civilian population getting bombed to bits and the opposite happened,
admissions to psych wards,
went down during the blitz and then back up after the bombing stop. And, um,
and then afterwards there was an enormous nostalgia in England for the blitz for
those days. Uh, um,
as tragic as they were because English society felt, um,
people felt like they were together. Um, later I was,
I went back to Sarajevo where I'd been during the siege of Sarajevo in the early
nineties and civilians, uh, would tell me, you know,
this is 20 years later or 20 years after the war. He would say, you know,
a lot of us missed the war because we were better people back then we took care
of each other.
I've talked about that with September 11th. Um, I went to New York city, um,
about, I guess it was maybe six months after September 11th. And, uh,
I was there a couple of times and the, before September 11th,
then after September 11th,
there was a very clear difference in the way people were behaving.
People seem to be more, more friendly, more open.
They were really appreciative of first responders. Um,
I was there once in a friend of mine, she fainted.
And so they called the fire department, came to check her out. And,
and when the firemen showed up, man, you would think superhero showed up.
It was amazing. Everybody was so happy to see him.
And it was in stark contrast to the way people used to behave and treat each
other. And it was directly because of having experienced this horrific.
Well,
adversity produces PR pro social behaviors and people,
adversity makes people act well. Uh, the lack of adversity,
safety and comfort allow people to act selfishly. Uh, so after nine 11, um,
the suicide rate went down in New York. Uh,
the violent crime rate went down in New York.
Vietnam bats reported that their PTSD symptoms went down after nine 11.
Um, what happens is, um,
people suddenly feel that they're needed by their society, by their people.
And if you feel needed, you are able to, um,
ignore your own personal troubles. As when someone in England, uh,
an efficient and English official said, uh, during the blitz in London, um,
he said, it's amazing.
We have the chronic neurotics of peacetime driving ambulances. Um,
and if you think about in terms of evolution,
if adversity in danger produced bad human behaviors, we wouldn't be here today.
Another way to say that is we are the descendants of the individuals a hundred
thousand years ago, who acted well in a crisis.
The people that acted badly in a crisis and just took care of themselves and
didn't take care of their people, their group, those, those people,
those groups died out. Uh, it's people,
it's groups that encourage a form of altruism and souks self-sacrifice of
individuals for the group. During a crisis, those groups survive. The,
that DNA gets passed onto us.